# csc216-001-P2-064

## Project 2 FAQs
Thanks to the campus students for contributing to this list of FAQs for Project 2.

#### Clients, Reservations, and Tours

* Are you able to edit a reservation for a specific client for a different tour than selected?  

   You cannot edit a reservation. You can create a reservation and you can cancel a reservation. But once it's made, you cannot simply modify it (change the tour or increase the party size, for example).

* I saw an option to add a client, but did not see one for the removal of a client.

  Clients cannot be removed.

* Is anyone allowed to add a new tour? Is the client inputing all of this or is this a system for the company to use internally?

   Wolf Travel would use this system internally. So only an employee of the company would be entering data.

* Are the tours and reservations supposed to be displayed in ascending order (by date) in the GUI?   

   The tours are displayed in ascending order by date, then name, then duration [UC2,S4]. Reservations are displayed in the order in which they were made.

* Can minimum duration of the tour be equal to the maximum duration? Or the program should throw exception in this case too?

   This is with respect to filtering [UC5]. Yes, the minimum duration can be the same as the max duration. This would be helpful, for example, if you were looking for 1-day tours.

* How is the one time doubling of capacity for Educational tours tracked? Once its doubled and a client drops to below half of the capacity, will the capacity remain at that double amount?

   Your design should specify how to handle tracking the capacity doubling [UC7,S7]. Once the capacity is doubled, it never drops back to its original amount even if reservations for it are canceled.

* When making a reservation, is a "party" considered a single Client and "x" number of generic/no-name people, or does there need to be information about the other members of the party?   

   The client books a reservation on behalf of a party. This problem assumes that the client takes care of the individual party members on their own. Wolf Travel is concerned only about the clients.

* Is the Confirmation code only generated by the program, or does the user have to specify one themselves?   

   The confirmation code has to be generated by the program (or read in from a text file).

* Is there a limit to the number of reservations a client can have?

   There is no limit.

* Do clients need a list of tours that they are in?

   Clients need a list of their reservations, and each reservation is for a specific tour.

* Are there any differences in the types of tours that would change the number of possible clients, costs, etc.?   
   Reservation pricing depends on the type of tour and the party size [UC10, S3]. EducationalTours can expand (once) to accommodate a larger party size.

* Both the panels for selected client and tour reservations have kind of the same info and don't really need both of them. What is the point of both the panels for selected client and tour reservations?

   The two different panels give two different perspectives into reservations, one from the tour's point of view and the other from the client's point of view. Suppose, for example, the GUI had a panel for all of the selected tour's reservations but nothing from the client's point of view. If you wanted to see all reservations for a particular client, you would have to go through all the tours hunting for any reservation belonging to that client.

#### Shutdown

In Use Case 13: Shutdown, how should I handle the user clicking the close button in the top corner of the window?
Clicking the close button should have the same effect as selecting File -> Quit.

Should the program prompt the user to save before ending, or save automatically before ending?
The program should prompt the user to save before ending if there are any changes in data to save. (The user can opt not to save.)

#### Files

* Are we using an external library for this project? Does this project allow for txt files?

   No and no (sort of). But the program will work with text files that have the extension .md.

* What is the format for the .md file?

   .md file is a text file. See [UC2] for the file format as it relates to the project.

* Are we responsible for writing the code that directly interfaces with files?
   Yes.

* Do we need to write our own file reader class to manipulate files or will it be provided like in project 1?

   Since you are handling simple text files, you will have to handle reading and writing on your own.

* Lines with client information come before lines with tour or reservation info. Should the client lines (that come first) be in alphanumeric order or in order by date? Does it matter?? First come; first serve?

   For clients, it's first come, first served. They're not ordered alphabetically, and they cannot be ordered by date since clients are independent of dates.

#### Design and Implementation

* I am curious what other kind of design patterns we have to use beyond MVC.

   You've seen other design patterns besides MVC, right? Think how one of those patterns might manifest itself in your design.

* What specific type of linear data structure will we need to create to hold the data in the program?   

   The instructions say at least one custom array list and at least one custom linked list.

* Where(if anywhere) are we going to implement the linked list? How will the custom arrayLists play into this project?   

   This is a very list-centric problem. I'm sure you can find places where a custom linked list or a custom array list might be appropriate.

* Do we need to make GUI ourselves?

   No. We will provide the GUI.
